Dec 9, 2025
ComponentPresentation for OTEL  Epic workshop
Invited Frank van Lankvelt Anton Ovechkin Remco Beckers Bram Schuur Deon Taljaard Louis Lotter Sam Jones Lukasz Marchewka Alejandro Acevedo Osorio
Attachments ComponentPresentation for OTEL  Epic workshop 
Meeting records File 

Summary
Bram Schuur and Louis Lotter organized the "Stackpacks 2.0" workshop to share the approach for the next epic, "component presentation," which aims to consolidate how end-users configure presentations for components to achieve compositional Stackpex 2.0, enabling other teams like SUSE AI and Harvester to extend SUSE observability. Bram Schuur, with input from Remco Beckers, proposed moving presentation logic to the backend to address stack pack inconsistencies and allow components to match multiple presentations, making configuration more compositional and extensible, which Anton Ovechkin and Sam Jones appreciated. Participants discussed how the new system will handle mixed component views and column definitions, with Bram Schuur, Remco Beckers, Lukasz Marchewka, and Sam Jones exploring specifics such as column overrides, the optional `mode` field, and current frontend limitations.

Details
Notes Length: Standard
Meeting Logistics and Stackpacks 2.0 Goal Bram Schuur and Louis Lotter initially addressed some confusion about how Google Meet functions for taking notes and recording. Bram Schuur then outlined the goal for the "Stackpacks 2.0" workshop, which is to share the approach for the next epic and share knowledge about Stackpex 2.0. The primary objective of Stackpex 2.0 is to empower other teams, such as SUSE AI, Harvester, and the security hub, to extend SUSE observability by integrating other technologies and enabling customers to extend the platform.
Component Presentation as the Next Epic The next epic, tentatively named "component presentation," will focus on consolidating how end-users configure presentations for components. Presentation in SUSE observability centers around components, with monitors, properties, metrics, and traces tagging along. Bram Schuur proposed to build on the existing auto topology work by creating a set of presentation primitives that allow end-users to bring new data into view after making an auto component mapping, essentially making the current stack pack into a compositional Stackpex 2.0.
Addressing Stack Pack Inconsistencies Bram Schuur highlighted that the current stack pack system has issues with different stack packs working together, using the example of filters in the Kubernetes stack pack working but not for OTel. Remco Beckers pointed out that the current filters for clusters and namespaces are hardcoded and not configurable for services like OTel. The goal of the new configuration approach is to make it more compositional and accessible so end users can create stack packs that work together and won't break over time.
Proposal for Component Presentation on the Backend The proposal centers on moving the presentation logic to the backend to make configuration more compositional and accessible. The consolidated structure, called "component presentation," would define how a component is presented based on a binding match, replacing separate concepts like main menu items. Anton Ovechkin questioned if the matching occurs on the front end, but Bram Schuur confirmed that the proposal is to bring this logic to the backend to handle the interpretation of component presentation.
Compositional Component Presentations and Extensibility Component presentations are intended to be compositional, meaning they can be defined for a collection of components and fall back to basic presentations if needed. Remco Beckers explained that for a Java OTel service instance, multiple presentations might apply, requiring a precedence system to merge or pick parts from the highest precedence presentation. This compositional approach is driven by the need for extensibility, allowing an end-user to add columns to an overview page, for example.
Impact on Component Type and the One-to-One Match Model Anton Ovechkin inquired about the future of the component type, which Bram Schuur indicated would likely go away in a big part. The new system moves from a one-to-one match between a component and its presentation to a single component potentially matching multiple presentations. This change addresses the problem where extending a presentation currently requires extending the entire overview page and forcing a component to be a different type.
Handling Mixed Component Views and Presentation Specificity When displaying multiple components, the new system allows choice between regressing to a common denominator presentation or adding specialized columns that only show information for certain rows. Bram Schuur confirmed that when multiple component bindings apply, the system would use the most specific ones that hold for all components in view. Lukasz Marchewka's questions led to the clarification that for a list view, the most generic attributes would likely be used unless a specific main menu entry filtered the list, in which case more specialized columns could be displayed.
Column Overrides, Ordering, and the `mode` Field Anton Ovechkin asked about column overrides, which Bram Schuur suggested should use a ranking system based on specificity, although admitting that ordering questions remain open. For overview pages, a suggestion was to place generic columns to the left and more specific ones to the right. The component presentation structure also includes an optional `mode` field, which Bram Schuur confirmed should be an array to allow presentations to apply to multiple contexts (e.g., observability and security).
Refining Column Definition and Frontend Limitations Sam Jones raised a concern about the `width` property in column definitions, noting that hardcoded widths from the backend might break if frontend font or sizing changes. Anton Ovechkin and Remco Beckers acknowledged this is a limitation based on the current front-end table component and suggested a future solution might involve keywords like "fit content" or declarations about full content display. Remco Beckers also highlighted the current cringe-inducing difference between how data is pulled for overview pages versus highlight pages, which should be made more similar.
Incremental Rollout, Backwards Compatibility, and Team Involvement The team intends to roll out the component presentation work incrementally due to the amount of detail and need for backwards compatibility. The core proposal is to decouple the frontend from presentation logic by implementing a backend API to return the computed results and ensure backwards compatibility with current settings while developing the new compositional version under a feature flag. Anton Ovechkin and Sam Jones appreciated the idea of shifting this logic to the backend. Anton Ovechkin confirmed that they would be glad to be involved whenever input is needed, especially for complex issues like pagination.
Team Focus on the Epic Deon Taljaard asked if both teams would work on this epic. Louis Lotter mentioned that Mark indicated some people might focus on the security hub, but Remco Beckers argued the security hub is closely related to this work. Louis Lotter suggested classifying the work as "security hub work" to focus the team. Bram Schuur confirmed they will have a follow-up meeting to lay out the work and decide on the team composition.

Suggested next steps
Bram Schuur will send a couple of links that were intended to be opened during the meeting.
Bram Schuur will check using Firefox for screen sharing as a potential fix for the graphic acceleration issue on Chrome.
Bram Schuur and Remco Beckers will schedule another meeting to discuss the rough layout of the work and how it could be split for the epic.

You should review Gemini's notes to make sure they're accurate. Get tips and learn how Gemini takes notes
Please provide feedback about using Gemini to take notes in a short survey.
